{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red108\green108\blue108;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 From: 
\b0 \cf3 Ben Arthur <bja28@cornell.edu>\

\b \cf2 Date: 
\b0 \cf3 June 11, 2011 11:10:09 AM EDT\

\b \cf2 To: 
\b0 \cf3 David Stern <dstern@Princeton.EDU>\

\b \cf2 Subject: \cf3 a few things\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 great to see you! \'a0a very productive trip. \'a0a few things:\
\
the issue with matlab and array_take is that the data acq toolbox\
only works with 32-bit ni-daqmx. \'a0the intel chip can be 64 bit, as\
can windows, but matlab and the NI drivers must be 32-bit. \'a0in the\
most recent release of matlab (2011a), NI compactdaq boards are\
supported in 64-bit matlab, but not USB ones like ours. \'a0so you\
could install 32-bit 2011a for data acq if you wanted, but it\
wouldn't make a difference really as array_take is neither CPU nor\
RAM intensive.\
\
2011a's release notes mention optimized linear algebra operators.\
i don't know whether this means GPU enabled or not. \'a0either way,\
FFT was not mentioned. \'a0when i get the system set up here i'll\
profile the code and see what can easily be sped up.\
\
the circuit can easily be modified to compensate for the increased\
sensitivity with frequency. \'a0short the pads across R6, put two\
50kOhms in parallel on R7 to make it 25kOhms effective, omit C8,\
and use 250nF for C7. \'a0this replaces the 2-pole high pass at 5 kHz\
with a 1-pole at 25 Hz. \'a0double the frequency and the response is\
halved. \'a0if you go this route with kelly, i'd would first measure\
the difference in frequencies and amplitudes between her two pulse\
types to see if this would be enough of an adjustment. \'a0if so, then\
wire up one circuit and try it out.\
\
new version of flysong_segmenter_byhand uploaded to dropBox. \'a0loads\
in old _byhand.mat files if they exist for further editing, can\
access workspace variables, pulses demarcated by peak and trough,\
and can listen to the data with the play button.\
\
mala mentioned zinc fingers and how they might be used to create\
gal4 lines in mosquito by leveraging what we know in drosophila.\
would it be outrageous for someone like me to try something like\
that? \'a0can you suggest anything i could read on the technique?\
\
i'm heading home shortly. \'a0didn't make it into lab today as i figured\
i could just do this computer work from the hotel. \'a0tomoko and i\
both worked late last night finishing up all the cutting. \'a0let's\
plan on another visit in a few months.\
\
ben\
}